---
layout: post
title: Notetagger - Summing up
date: '2005-04-27 17:04:58 +0200'
mt_id: 1306
categories:
- projects
---
"The":https://mentalized.net/journal/2005/04/15/notetagger-getting-down-and-dirty/ "previous":https://mentalized.net/journal/2005/04/15/notetagger-adding-tags/ "installments":https://mentalized.net/journal/2005/04/27/notetagger-adding-the-ajax/index.php cover roughly 4 hours of development, research and taking notes for these posts. That is 4 hours from doing the initial

bc. rails notetagger

to having an application that works. It's not perfect in any way, but it does most of what I initially aimed for. Not too shabby for a slowpoke like me, I say.



<!--more-->

h2. The rake statistics

bc. +----------------------+-------+-------+---------+---------+-----+-------+
| Name                 | Lines |   LOC | Classes | Methods | M/C | LOC/M |
+----------------------+-------+-------+---------+---------+-----+-------+
| Helpers              |    20 |    12 |       0 |       1 |   0 |    10 |
| Controllers          |    76 |    61 |       2 |      11 |   5 |     3 |
| APIs                 |     0 |     0 |       0 |       0 |   0 |     0 |
| Components           |     0 |     0 |       0 |       0 |   0 |     0 |
|   Functionals        |    71 |    55 |       2 |      10 |   5 |     3 |
| Models               |    17 |    14 |       2 |       1 |   0 |    12 |
|   Units              |    28 |    20 |       2 |       4 |   2 |     3 |
+----------------------+-------+-------+---------+---------+-----+-------+
| Total                |   212 |   162 |       8 |      27 |   3 |     4 |
+----------------------+-------+-------+---------+---------+-----+-------+
  Code LOC: 87     Test LOC: 75     Code to Test Ratio: 1:0.9


h2. Things to do

There are still lot of things that can be improved on Notetagger.

One major thing that I haven't touched at all is testing, and I reckon there are a fair few bugs and errors spread lightly around the code (for instance the application comes tumbling down if no tags are given).

Also the Ajax implementation could be better. The application is unusable if you happen to have Javascript turned off. Neither do the Ajax calls handle errors in a particularly good way.

I might cover some of the above in future installments, depending on how well the existing ones are received. For now I think I'll relax a bit with making my Notetagger installation pretty and adding "fancy Ajax effects":http://mir.aculo.us/demos/effects/demo1.html that'll make Flash designers weep with envy :P

Continue to next part: "Adding users and subdomains":/journal/2005/05/18/notetagger_adding_users_and_subdomains/
