---
layout: post
title: Synchronizing my Outlook with my T610
date: '2005-04-05 14:22:21 +0200'
mt_id: 1281
categories:
- technology
---
I have a Sony Ericsson T610 cell phone, one Microsoft Outlook 2002 (yeah, I know...), a Bluetooth dongle I've forgotten model and make of, and XTNDCOnnect PC.

Once upon a time, they were all able to communicate with each other and everything was good. Then suddently, a mysterious thing happened, and XTNDConnect PC would no longer talk to the T610. Nothing I did, would make it want to again - until now.

<!--more-->


This is how I made my Outlook synchronize tasks and events with my Sony Ericsson T610 over Bluetooth via XTNDConnect PC, and it's here so I can read it next time my computer decides to give me grief over this.

# Make sure Bluetooth is turned on, both in the phone and the dongle

h2. Bluetooh Setup Wizard

# Open Bluetooh Setup Wizard (from the Bluetooth icon in the systray)
# Select "I want to find a specific..."
# Select T610
# Enable Serial Port 1, on COM5
# Finish

h2. Advanced Configuration

# Open Advanced Configuration (from the Bluetooth icon in the systray)
# Under Local services:
## Bluetooh Serial Port on COM6, start up automatically
# Client applications
## Add Bluetooh Serial Port on COM5

h2. Control panel

# Open Phone Monitor in Windows XP Control Panel
# Under COM-ports:
## Enable COM5, reserved
## Disable COM6, not reserved

h2. Finito

# "Synchronize now" in Outlook

This worked for me and it might work for you too.
