---
layout: post
title: Firefox 1.5 is out
date: '2005-12-01 14:50:54 +0100'
mt_id: 1485
categories:
- browsers
---
<div style="float: right">
  <script type="text/javascript"><!--
  google_ad_client = "pub-7407278311558118";
  google_ad_width = 120;
  google_ad_height = 240;
  google_ad_format = "120x240_as_rimg";
  google_cpa_choice = "CAAQjeWZzgEaCGUPemYRwK8bKPG193M";
  //--></script>
  <script type="text/javascript"   src="https://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/show_ads.js">
  </script>
</div>

"Firefox 1.5 is out":http://getfirefox.com and naturally I have to check it out. My initial impression is "whoa, it's so much faster than the old version". I have no hard numbers, but it would seem that render speed and general responsiveness have improved vastly.

<!--more-->

Too bad I have to wait for my favorite plugins to be updated, although having "Viamatic foXpose":https://addons.mozilla.org/extensions/moreinfo.php?application=firefox&id=1457 available instead almost makes up for it.

An interesting change is having CSS errors and warnings appear in the JavaScript console. I am not entirely sure I like that approach, since the JS Console can become cluttered enough as it is. Still, making errors and warnings more visible is a good thing, although I'd probably prefer an extension ala the HTML Validator one that validates CSS instead.

At least some good has already come from it: It prompted me to do something about the IE hacks I had in place here at, so I don't look (as much) like a bumbling CSS fool.

+And boo: Firefox 1.5 doesn't pass the Acid2 test+
