---
layout: post
title: Optimus 103 keyboard less than optimal?
date: '2006-12-12 15:40:00 +0100'
mt_id: 1758
categories:
- hardware
- blogging
---
"Art. Lebedev Studio":http://www.artlebedev.com/ should now have been taking pre-orders for their Optimus-103 keyboard, which is based on what used to be the probably coolest keyboard ever; "the Optimus concept keyboard":http://www.artlebedev.com/everything/optimus/.

However, somewhere along the process from concept to production the keyboard has:

# "Lost a bunch of keys":http://community.livejournal.com/optimus_project/8800.html (fair enough, we probably didn't need them and losing them shaves 10% off the price).
# "Lost the ability to display color icons":http://community.livejournal.com/optimus_project/11850.html (which unfortunately means it lost quite a bit of its appeal, as well).
# "Had a pre-order pricetag set to $1200(!), with promises of sub-$1000 in late 2007":http://community.livejournal.com/optimus_project/12845.html ($1200?! we knew it would be expensive, but seriously, that's way too much for mostly everyone).
# "Had the studio owner post a sour post claiming it would have no displays and a $10K pricetag":http://community.livejournal.com/optimus_project/14338.html (ranting has its place, but I am not sure a post like that is a good idea for any company).
# "Had it's pre-order date pushed from mid December 2006 to February 2007 and regained support for color icons":http://community.livejournal.com/optimus_project/15834.html (makes me wonder if this means the $1200 pricetag is still real or what?).

So apparently we have to wait until February until we know anything. Until then, you can enjoy the "Optimus' 3 key baby brother instead":http://www.artlebedev.com/everything/optimus-mini/.

PS: Kudos to the Art. Lebedev Studio team for "blogging about this process":http://community.livejournal.com/optimus_project/, even though hearing peoples reactions can be frustrating at times.
