---
layout: post
title: Simplifying my Rails views
date: '2006-12-08 15:46:52 +0100'
mt_id: 1757
categories:
- programming
---
"Rails":http://www.rubyonrails.org views are powerful creatures. You have the full power of "Ruby":http://ruby-lang.org right at your fingertips, which makes it easy to write too much Ruby code in your view making them become cluttered and hard to read. 

The following is the tale of how I cleaned up a small part of a single view in "BiQ":http://www.biq.dk after having made a dirty mess of it. 

<!--more-->

+Updated: For some reason my blogging setup made it impossible to read the code in Safari. I apologize for that, and I have hacked a solution by adding spaces in certain places. Unfortunately that makes the code invalid Ruby, but at least it can be read by you.+

h2. Short description of the domain. 

BiQ has a bunch of Entities (which can be either people or companies). Each Entity is potentially connected to other Entities through a bunch of Relations. 

Each Relation is of a specific type that describes what kind of relationship the Relation models (for example it can be "Bob is a board member of MegaCorp Inc"). A relation is also considered to active or inactive depending on the value of it's end date.


h2. The problem at hand

In one of my views, I need to display a list of relations of a few specific types for an entity. In my view this looks like (roughly, some danish translated):

bc(ruby). < % unless @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boardmember).empty? %&gt;
  <h2>Directors</h2>
  <table>
    < % for relation in @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boarddirectors) %>
      <tr>
        <td>< %= link_to h(relation.other_entity.name), :controller => 'entities', :id => relation.other_entity.id %></td>
        <td>< %= h(relation.value.capitalize) rescue nil %></td>
        <td>< %= h(relation.started_on) %></td>
      </tr>
    < % end %>
  </table>
< % end %>
< % unless @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boardmember).empty? %>
  <h2>Board members</h2>
  <table>
    < % for relation in @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boardmember) %>
      <tr>
        <td>< %= link_to h(relation.other_entity.name), :controller => 'entities', :id => relation.other_entity.id %></td>
        <td>< %= h(relation.value.capitalize) rescue nil %></td>
	<td>< %= h(relation.started_on) %></td>
      </tr>
    < % end %>
  </table>
< % end %>

Looking at the above code it is hard to look past the fact that it's extremely repetitive. The above shows only 2 tables, I have 2 more in the view looking exactly like the rest.


h2. Time to extract to a partial

Seeing how the above code was a part of a view, I start by extracting it into a partial. The process is simple:

# Write the render(:partial) line above the partial you're about to extract.
# Cut and paste the code and HTML to a newly created partial.

This gives me a partial looking like: 

bc(ruby). < % unless @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boardmember).empty? %>
  <h2>Board members</h2>
  <table>
    < % for relation in @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boardmember) %>
      <tr>
        <td>< %= link_to h(relation.other_entity.name), :controller => 'entities', :id => relation.other_entity.id %></td>
        <td>< %= h(relation.value.capitalize) rescue nil %></td>
        <td>< %= h(relation.started_on) %></td>
      </tr>
    < % end %>
  </table>
< % end %>

In the above, I have two calls to @company.find_relations which are identical. Those two calls also happen to be different for each table I need to render, so it makes a lot of sense moving them into the calling view, passing the result to partial as a local.

The other non-repeating element is the headline (&lt;h2&gt;Board members&lt;/h2&gt; in the above). My initial thought was to pass the value of the headline to the partial, however thinking through my models  I realized I could get the value from the list of relations.

Applying these changes leaves me with a partial looking like this: 

bc(ruby html). < % unless relations.empty? %>
  <h2>< %= relations.collect {|relation| relation.relation_type.title}.uniq.sort.to_sentence %></h2>
  <table>
    < % for relation in relations) %>
      <tr>
        <td>< %= link_to h(relation.other_entity.name), :controller => 'entities', :id => relation.other_entity.id %></td>
        <td>< %= h(relation.value.capitalize) rescue nil %></td>
        <td>< %= h(relation.started_on) %></td>
      </tr>
    < % end %>
  </table>
< % end %>

And a view that now looks like this:

bc(ruby html). < %= render(:partial => 'relations', :locals => {:relations => @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boarddirector)}) %>
< %= render(:partial => 'relations', :locals => {:relations => @company.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => :boardmember)}) %>


h2. Ooh, I get by with a little help...

While the view is now a lot better there's still a lot of repeated stuff. Comparing the above, the only thing that actually changes is the value passed to the :only option.

To me, that makes each line a perfect candidate for extracting into a helper methd, which I can call like this:

bc(ruby html). < %= relations_for(@company, :boarddirector) %>
< %= relations_for(@company, :boardmember) %>

(For some reason my Movable Type + Textilize setup is adding semicolons at the end of the lines above. They're not really needed there, trust me)

Yes, now we're talking! I just need to create that helper. Luckily it almost writes itself, since I have already defined the interface for it by writing out how I want to call it:

bc(ruby). def relations_for(entity, entity_type)
  relations = entity.find_relations(:active, :incoming, :only => entity_type)
  render(:partial => 'relations', :locals => {:relations => relations})
end

Voila, everything works. How do I know? Simple; All the while refactoring as described above, ZenTest have been running my test suite automatically testing every single change I've made.


h2. Issues best left for the future

There is one issue with the above helper (well, there are likely quite a few), that's bound to hit me in the near future: It can only show active and incoming relations. 

While it is tempting to go in and rewrite the helper to have it accept those extra parameters, the fact at this point is that I don't need that functionality.

I can rewrite the helper when I have an actual need for it, and instead spend the time writing a blog entry detailing how I refactored my view from oodles of repetitive code to an ultraclean, readable view.
