---
layout: post
title: Making CodeHighlighter play nice
date: '2006-02-27 15:40:44 +0100'
mt_id: 1549
categories:
- programming
- mentalized.net
---
I want snippets of code that I publish here on Mentalized to have fancy colors and syntax highlighting. It makes reading code easier in my editors and it should make it easier here as well. Enter "CodeHighlighter":http://www.danwebb.net/workspace/CodeHighlighter/.

bq. a lightweight, unobstrusive and fully configurable script for displaying code examples highlighted in a way similar to the way many text editors highlight code.

Sure sounds good, too bad it sent my "Firefox":http://getfirefox.com spinning into a dark grave of recursion whenever it was run on a document that also included Prototype - like, oh say, this weblog. Time to roll up those sleeves and get with the javascript.debugging.



<!--more-->

h2. Fixing it

It turns out that CodeHighlighter iterates over the available stylesets by doing

bc(javascript). // run highlighter on all stylesets
for (var i in this.styleSets) highlightCode(this.styleSets[i]);

However, Prototype apparently changes the way arrays work, and the above method will send Firefox into what looks like an infinite loop (I'm guessing here, since I didn't have the patience to test the inifinity claim). Fixing the issue is a matter of changing the loop to:

bc(javascript). // run highlighter on all stylesets
for (var i = 0; i < this.styleSets.length; i++) highlightCode(this.styleSets[i]);

Note that this fix should be safe, even when you do not have Prototype included.


h2. Call oldonload on onload

Also the setEvent() function doesn't seem to work when there's an existing onload event attached. It fails saying oldonload isn't a function (or something to that effect), which is no wonder, since it isn't actually defined before called. The setEvent() function should look like:

bc(javascript). function setEvent() {
	// set highlighter to run on load
	var oldonload = window.onload;	
	if (typeof window.onload != 'function') {
		window.onload = function() { CodeHighlighter.init() }
	} else {
		window.onload = function() {
			oldonload();
			CodeHighlighter.init();
		}
	}
}

Note that the line below "// set highlighter to run on load" has changed.


h2. It actually works

As you can tell by the - hopefully - nicely colored pieces of code above, it is working (assuming you use a supported browser, that is). The colors are loosely inspired by the "TextMate":http://macromates.com SunBurst theme.
