---
layout: post
title: Stuff is indeed happening
date: '2006-01-02 11:40:10 +0100'
mt_id: 1497
categories:
- projects
---
"Progress indicators, activity indicators, spinners, throbbers":http://mentalized.net/activity-indicators/. Call them what you want, but "giving some away for free":http://mentalized.net/journal/2005/11/29/ajax-activity-indicators/ sure seems to have been a good idea.

Thanks to those of you who let me know you appreciated the images, and especially to those of you who sent me your own collections. Unfortunately I really can't be bothered to check on ownership and rights of every single image, so I need to be told that what you send me is indeed yours to release into the wild wastes of the public domain. "Virgin Radio":http://www.virginradio.co.uk gets credit for being the first contributor to the collection who isn't me.

So far I know of 2 places using my indicators, "bibli.ca":http://bibli.ca and "RunThere.com":http://runthere.com who both let me know about it. Cheers! One guy also took the time to post them to "his Flickr stream":http://www.flickr.com/photos/mornlee/ - how's that for offsite backup? ;)



"Jesper Rønn-Jensen":http://justaddwater.dk/ asked how the link from Ajaxian influenced my stats. I think the proper response is "in a massive way". My page views went up by a factor of 10, but then again, it never was a huge number to begin with. The number of daily pageviews peaked 2 days after the Ajaxian post, and is now getting close to what it was before. 

All this sure made me feel all warm and A-listy inside. Great way to begin the new year.






