---
layout: post
title: Changes in Rails 1.2.3
date: '2007-03-14 09:42:51 +0100'
mt_id: 1797
categories:
- programming
- technology
---
"Rails 1.2.3 was released today":http://weblog.rubyonrails.com/2007/3/14/rails-1-2-3-compatible-with-ruby-1-8-6-and-other-fixes, primarily to fix a few bugs and compatibility issues with the recently released Ruby 1.8.6.

Since the Rails team doesn't provide an aggregate changelog and I was going through the individual changelogs to see what had changed, I figured I might as well post the changes for y'all to see.

<!--more-->

h2. ActionMailer

* Depend on Action Pack 1.13.3


h2. ActionPack

* Fix a bug in Routing where a parameter taken from the path of the current request could not be used as a query parameter for the next. Closes #6752. [Nicholas Seckar]
* session_enabled? works with session :off.  #6680 [Catfish]
* Performance: patch cgi/session to require digest/md5 once rather than per #create_new_id.  [Stefan Kaes]


h2. ActionWebservice

* Depend on Action Pack 1.13.3


h2. ActiveRecord

* Allow a polymorphic :source for has_many :through associations. Closes #7143 [protocool]
* Consistently quote primary key column names.  #7763 [toolmantim]
* Fixtures: fix YAML ordered map support.  #2665 [Manuel Holtgrewe, nfbuckley]
* Fix has_many :through << with custom foreign keys.  #6466, #7153 [naffis, Rich Collins]


h2. ActiveSupport

* Ruby 1.8.6 and 1.9 define private Time#to_date and #to_datetime; make them public for compatibility.  [Jeremy Kemper]
* Deprecation: warn on stderr if RAILS_DEFAULT_LOGGER isn't set yet.  [Jeremy Kemper]


h2. RailTies

* Ruby 1.8.6 compatibility
* Windows: include MinGW in RUBY_PLATFORM check.  #2982 [okkez000@gmail.com, Kaspar Schiess]
* Stop swallowing errors during rake test [Koz]	

