---
layout: post
title: Rails Rumble 2008
date: '2008-10-18 09:42:29 +0200'
mt_id: 1995
categories:
- projects
- Rails
---
"Rails Rumble 2008":http://railsrumble.com is in full effect. Rails Rumble is a 48 hour Rails development contest, and I and two others from the "Copenhagen Ruby Brigade":http://copenhagenrb.dk have decided to enter the fray.

h2. 2 hours to go

The time is getting close to midnight and my eyelids are getting to close to the floor - or so it feels. We're done, there's no way we can manage any more improvements.

The last hour we've been doing bugfixes by deleting the stuff that's not working. When something is buggy with no time (or energy) to fix it, and you refuse to deploy low quality stuff, that's the way to go about it. Oh well.

Rails Rumble 2008 is over for us, looking forward to going through all the apps - some of them are looking really amazing.


h2. 3.5 hours to go

Fatigue is definitely setting in now. We're doing stupid mistakes and things aren't moving nearly as quickly as it has been. But, we've been able to check off some of the items on the "nice to have" list, which is... well... nice. Looks like my ability to blog doesn't increase the more tired I get, either.

Anyways, the site has been deployed, and we don't want to risk doing anything major to it for the remainder of the contest - we're bound to break something if we do.

So without further ado I give you "Quotagious - the most awesome way to store and find quotes":http://quotagious.r08.railsrumble.com.



h2. 7 hours to go

Uh oh, less than a regular day of work left. Actually, a lot less as it's highly unlikely we'll stay awake until the deadline, it being at 2AM our time and tomorrow being a work day.

Funny how tons of small things crop up as we get closer to the deadline. Luckily we have the features we aimed for done. And they would've been deployed had it not been for the fact that something took the server down. Oh well, with no staging environment stuff like that happens.

Thomas has been working on Twitter integration for the last few hours. We didn't want to be the only Rails Rumble app not hooked up to Twitter somehow... Performance optimizations and even more usability improvements have been my focus for the last few hours - our beta testers are ruthless, thanks guys :)

In related news, we're now down to 99% Ruby code, 1% Javascript :(


h2. 12 hours to go

75% through the competition. So far I have been focused on usability and making the site look nice. Thomas has started on one of the fancier features, and my wife has been doing beta-testing for us.

Having someone outside the team look over the application is invaluable, even if done remotely. We've already implemented some changes, primarily in relation to wording and program flow in order to make it clearer what the application is and how it works.

The application is pretty solid, and we've added a "stable" tag to it. So if we end up messing it totally up the last twelve hours, at least we'll have something to deploy. We've also started working purely in feature branches (yay Git) to lessen the risk that we end up deploying something half-implemented and broken.


h2. Day 2 - 17 hours to go

Good morning, time to dive back into the code after a short nights sleep. Unfortunately, the more interesting stuff will have to wait, as the nights beta-testing revealed a few serious issues that needs to be fixed; primarily usability-wise. I have a feeling that we won't get many favourable votes if people cannot sign up or log in.



h2. 26 hours to go

Yawn, tiredness is definitely setting in, but we've come a long way by now. The core functionality is working and seems solid - although I am sure it's all an illusion that shatters the moment a real user gets involved. We've even got around to adding the majority of the UI theme.

UI-wise we had originally decided on just buying a stock theme somewhere, but we ended up doing it ourselves. I had some visual ideas I wanted to try out, and most the themes we could find in the short time we'd put aside for it, didn't feel right and/or would need too much modification after the fact. So we're rolling our now - support for IE6? Yeah, right.

For the last couple of hours we've been mainly doing minor stuff, none of us really feel like tackling the bigger ToDo items. Looking at the bright side, this means we've got a fairly complete'ish application now not even halfways through the competion.

The plan for tomorrow is to dig into the more interesting stuff; the features that move the application away from "meh, this is just a script/generate scaffold job" and into "Championship belt":http://blog.railsrumble.com/2008/10/17/in-this-corner status - or at least, that's the plan.

The plan for right now: Sleeping.


h2. 32 hours to go

The first long workday (and then some) has passed - and we're still going strong. However fatigue is becoming noticeable and I suspect we'll be heading away from the computers to do something different very soon.

The application is really shaping up. We're dealing with a bunch of fairly intricate edge cases we discover as we learn more about data model, and Test Driven Development is really helping us out here.

Our To Do list for today is growing thin, and it looks like we might be able to start working on polish and cool stuff already today.



h2. 37 hours to go

5 hours in, and we've started questioning our data model. It's not even that it's that complex. We've got 5 models, but it should probably be just 4. Too bad we can't figure out if it'll make things easier or harder cutting the one model.

Another thing we've been running into is the desire to make things too good. When you're facing a 48 hour deadline you have to settle for good enough. There's simply no time to go "Hrm, that URL doesn't like exactly like I'd like it to, let's just tweak it a liiiiiiittle bit..." - before you know it, you look at the clock and it's an hour later.


h2. 42 hours to go

Due to the competition starting at 1AM our time we figured we'd be wiser to start the competition by sleeping, so by now we've only been at it for roughly 3 hours. Progress so far: Breakfast has been eaten, and a basic application skeleton has been deployed to our server, running a very, very, very basic version of our core functionality.

We've used "Bort":https://github.com/fudgestudios/bort/ (as I am sure a ton of other teams has as well) as the base for the application, and I am sure we've have saved some time doing just that.

Next time around I'll probably take a look at the base application _before_ actually basing an application on it, though. Not that there has been any issues, but we did waste some time figuring out some Bort details. Luckily, it's time to dig into the meat of the application now.
