---
layout: post
title: Podcast recommendations
date: '2008-04-28 17:56:01 +0200'
mt_id: 1951
categories:
- life
---
I am a big fan of podcasts. I have roughly one hour of daily bicycling to and from work, and roughly the same amount of walking the dog, both of which are perfect time to listen to podcasts.

My "brother":http://dualmind.dk recently asked me for podcast recommendations and I figured I might as well share my podcast playlist with him, you, and the rest of the world.


h2. Audio only

h3. General tech

* "TWiT":http://twit.tv/twit
* "MacBreak Weekly":http://twit.tv/mbw
* "The MacCast":http://maccast.com

h3. Business stuff

* "Freelance Radio":http://freelanceswitch.com/podcasts/
* "Venture Voice":http://www.venturevoice.com/
* "The Web 2.0 Show":http://web20show.com

h3. Development/programming

* "The Ruby on Rails Podcast":http://podcast.rubyonrails.org/
* "Railsenvy":http://www.railsenvy.com/podcast
* "Hanselminutes":http://hanselminutes.com/

h3. Humour

* "You look nice today":http://www.merlinmann.com/2008/04/07/you-look-nice-today/
* "Maniacal Rage":http://maniacalragepodcast.com/


h2. Video

Some time ago we bought a Mac Mini for our living room, and since then, video podcasts have been one of - if not the - main source of media intake in our daily lives. The stuff we see:

* "Diggnation":http://diggnation.com - also recommendable in the audio version
* "Totally Rad Show":http://totallyradshow.com
* "Tekzilla":http://revision3.com/tekzilla/
* "Mahalo Daily":http://daily.mahalo.com/
* "Hound TV":http://houndtv.com/
* "The Guild":http://watchtheguild.com/

h2. Your recommendations

Please, let me know in the comments if there are any obvious podcasts I am missing.

