---
layout: post
title: How to increase your writing frequency
date: '2010-12-13 09:40:58 +0100'
mt_id: 2013
categories:
- blogging
- mentalizednet
---
Around this time last year, I gave myself a challenge: Write at least 52 blog entries throughout 2010. I signed up for "Project 52":http://project52.info:

bq. a personal challenge geared toward getting fresh content on your website.

I haven't completely risen to the challenge, but I am still hanging in there and it has massively improved my blogging efforts and how I deal with them.


<!--more-->


h2. It's all the mind

The mere act of signing up for and publicly committing to Project52 changed how I think about blogging.

I used to have a perpetual task in my "todo-list":http://flowtodo.com simply saying "Blog!". Whenever it appeared in my list of tasks, I'd happily ignore it for weeks until I got annoyed by it and sent the task into the future. A week later the story would repeat and I still wouldn't have the divine touch of inspiration for something to write.

Writing became a chore. I felt I was always behind.

Now, I am thinking ahead. I am continuously thinking of things to write because I know I have to publish something next week - and the week after. And I am actually writing (almost) every day.


h2. Allocate time for it

Inspired by "Noded":http://www.noded.biz/book I set aside 15 minutes per day for writing, immediately after checking feeds and news every morning. This way I don't have to miraculously find the time to write, which in freelancer-speak means "never"; there is always something more urgent, and profitable, to do.

Certainly, this is an investment, but by spending only a quarter of an hour per day it doesn't feel like a huge burden - neither on my time or energy.

Unfortunately, this fixed planning doesn't always pan out. If I am terribly busy, I'll skip my allotted time-slot. You can almost tell when I have been busy by going back over the entries and find the weeks where nothing got posted.

But on the up-side, if I am on a roll and the words just flow I'll keep writing after the 15 minute timer-bell rings.


h2. Dump your brain in the right place

Even though only 11 posts made it to "mentalized.net":http://mentalized.net in 2009, don't think I didn't have things on my mind, thoughts that wanted to get out. Some of those ended in "my Twitter stream":http://twitter.com/mentalizer and some ended in my notebook. Where they died.

An unintended side-effect of putting words in my notebook was that it gave me a feeling of being "done". The thoughts had been formulated and written down, my mind had been dumped. Done.

Unfortunately the task of bringing the post from notebook-draft to published blog post was too tedious with too little gain, so most posts never made it out of there.

Now, I write all my drafts directly in the blog interface. This way, only a single click of a button is keeping me from publishing and if I am only a few minutes away from having something publishable, I'll just do it.


h2. Bring it on

While I won't quite reach the full 52 entries in 2010 - this is post #44 and we're in week 50, the mere choice of committing to the project has made me write more.

Considering the fact that I only wrote 11 blog posts in 2009 and have written 4 times that in 2010, I'd say Project 52 has been a success for me this year and I've already committed to "the 2011 season":http://project52.info/blog/project_52_in_2011/.
