---
layout: post
title: 'Experiment: PileUp Carousel'
date: '2011-05-18 09:09:09 +0200'
mt_id: 2107
categories:
- projects
- webdesign
- technology
---
HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, hardware accelerated 3D transformations - this post has it all. Oh, and a live demo.

I recently had the idea of a photo carousel resembling a pile of photos being shuffled from one side of the screen to the other. The goal was to use as little JavaScript as possible and rely on CSS transitions instead.

<!--more-->

"The resulting demo is here":https://mentalized.net/files/journal/pileup/

h2. Disclaimer

This is just me messing about and kicking the tires, it's not intended to be a fully working, reusable, or customizable widget. In other words; this is not a jQuery plugin. I suppose it could be made into one fairly easily, though.


h3. Sidenote

&lt;pedantry&gt;When the heck did these types of widgets become "sliders"? "These are sliders":http://www.java2s.com/Code/JavaImages/SliderTest.PNG, the others are not. The best of them don't even slide. Calling them slideshows are a stretch even.&lt;/pedantry&gt;


h2. Features

* All animation is done by CSS.
* Most visual customization is controlled via CSS.
* Uses hardware acceleration where possible (I think).
* Should work with any element, not just images.
* Works in Safari, Chrome, and Firefox. It performs best in Safari, box shadows are a drag in the other browsers.
* Should degrade reasonably gracefully in other browsers, haven't been tested there though.


h2. Known issues

* Firefox has some visual artifacts caused by rotating it seems.
* The initial animation isn't the same across browsers, and to be honest, I'd prefer it wasn't there at all.
* It probably doesn't work all that great with differently sized images.
