---
layout: post
title: How to silence PostgreSQL in Rails
date: '2011-05-24 10:33:14 +0200'
mt_id: 2108
categories:
- technology
- programming
---
Using "PostgreSQL":http://postgresql.org for your "Rails":http://rubyonrails.org applications is great, but it tends to be terribly chatty, spewing notices and internal queries all over your terminal and log files.

Luckily, there are a few simple steps to make PostgreSQL a bit more bearable to work with.

<!--more-->

h2. Notices when running tests

The most obvious noise from PostgreSQL is when running your tests. For a large'ish application a simple <code>rake</code> will cause pages of

bc. NOTICE:  CREATE TABLE will create implicit sequence "inboxes_id_seq" for serial column "inboxes.id"
NOTICE:  CREATE TABLE / PRIMARY KEY will create implicit index "inboxes_pkey" for table "inboxes"

to be output. 

To get rid of those, simply add

bc(yaml). min_messages: warning

to your database.yml test environment ("ActiveRecord documentation":http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/ConnectionAdapters/PostgreSQLAdapter.html, "PostgreSQL documentation":http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.4/static/runtime-config-logging.html).


h2. ActiveRecord attribute queries

The first time Rails (well, ActiveRecord) loads a model it fetches the columns/attributes from the table. This is fine, but it can leave a lot of pointless and quite verbose output in your log files:

bc. Inbox Load (3.7ms)  SELECT "inboxes".* FROM "inboxes" ORDER BY created_at LIMIT 1
  SQL (0.9ms)   SELECT a.attname, format_type(a.atttypid, a.atttypmod), d.adsrc, a.attnotnull
 FROM pg_attribute a LEFT JOIN pg_attrdef d
 ON a.attrelid = d.adrelid AND a.attnum = d.adnum
 WHERE a.attrelid = '"inboxes"'::regclass
 AND a.attnum > 0 AND NOT a.attisdropped
 ORDER BY a.attnum

Getting rid of those is as simple as installing the "silent-postgres":https://github.com/dolzenko/silent-postgres gem, which 

bq. "Silences internal diagnostic messages from postgresql connection adapter."

Ah, silence is golden...
