---
title: "Announcing styr"
categories:
- programming
- projects
- technology
description: "We've built a small utility that makes it super simple to access and run tasks on your deployed applications."
---

Ever needed to run some maintenance task in your production environment? For me this always triggers a bunch of questions: What's that hostname again? What user should I log in as? And where did we deploy the application?

[We](https://substancelab.com)'ve built [styr](https://github.com/substancelab/styr) to answer those questions and ease the pain.

<!--more-->

With styr launching a Rails console in your production environment is as simple as

    $ styr --target=production run bundle exec rails console
    Running rails console on ⬢ redacted-production... up, run.9530
    Loading production environment (Rails 7.2.1.2)
    redacted(prod)>

And the best part is, if your application is reachable via SSH instead of being hosted on Heroku as above, launching a Rails console in your production environment is as simple as

    $ styr --target=production run bundle exec rails console
    Loading production environment (Rails 8.0.2.1)
    redacted(prod)>

## Getting started

Just follow the fairly simple installation and usage instructions at [substancelab/styr](https://github.com/substancelab/styr). Basically:

1. Grab the code from GitHub.
2. Add the `styr` binary to your `PATH`.
3. Configure targets in your application.

You should now be able to see `styr` in  all it's glory:

    $ styr
    styr [options] [--target] task [task options]
            --help                       Show helpful information
            --target TARGET              Target to perform the task on

    Available tasks:
      run       Run a command on a target
      targets   List configured targets
      tasks     List available tasks

## How about one-off scripts?

In my last post here I talked about[ running one-off scripts on Heroku with Rails](https://mentalized.net/journal/2025/10/16/heroku-run-rails-runner/), and of course you can do this with styr:

    $ cat hi.rb | styr --target=production run "rails runner -"

## Legacy

Looking back at my posts, this has actually been an ongoing thing of mine, and in many ways `styr` is the spiritual successor to [capistrano-remote](https://mentalized.net/journal/2015/11/22/capistrano-remote/) - just simpler and better.

## The future

While the current version provides the bare minimum, I'd love to be able to add application specific tasks. How about running `styr --target production rake db:migrate` for example, or perhaps just `styr --target production console` to launch a console regardless of your application stack.

I am also seeing something interesting in running tasks on multiple servers at once. Perhaps something like `styr --targets worker,web,app-01,app-02 run df -h` to see free disk space across multiple servers?
