---
layout: post
title: What search engines think I know
date: '2004-03-04 11:51:31 +0100'
mt_id: 783
categories:
- blogging
---
I've been looking at some of the phrases that people have used to find mentalized on search engines and much to my surprise I seem to be the #1 hit on Google for a few select things.

* "Velious Custom Helmets(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=velious+custom+helmets
* "movable type dirify individual entries(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=movable+type+dirify+individual+entries
* "google engilsh(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=google+engilsh (Kind of funny search actually)

Those examples are somewhat plain, but then it starts getting funny.

h2. Mentalized vs the world

* "Spammer IPs(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=Spammer%2Bips - Yup, check out mentalized.net for Spammer IPs
* "Mining emails(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=mining+emails - If only I could use my favorable ranking to stop people from doing it
* "leech protection(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=%22leech+protection%22 and "anti leech protection(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=anti%20leech%20protection - I hope at least one person have read those entries and reconsidered their need for bothering their users. That would be a minor victory in the battle against stupidity.

But I don't stop there. No sir, I won't settle for taking on spammers and stupid javascripts, I have to go after multinational corporations:

h2. Mentalized vs Nike

* "www.nike.no(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=%22%2Bwww.nike.no%22
* "www.nike play.com(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=www.nike+play.com
* "www.nike .com(Altavista)":http://www.altavista.com/web/results?kgs=0&kls=1&avkw=xytx&q=www.nike+.com&agentIgnore

My rant about Nike Plays ignorant browser check ranks higher than Nikes actual website, wow.

h2. Mentalized vs Samsung

* "samsung syncmaster 957nf(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=samsung+syncmaster+957nf
* "samsung 957nf monitor(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=samsung+957nf+monitor
* "syncmaster 957NF test(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=syncmaster+957NF+test

So a person looking for this very specific monitor is likely to end up reading my semi-rant about Samsungs website usability instead of actually finding the monitor on Samsungs website? 

And I am still the numero uno spot in the world for "female butts in tight leather pants(Google)":http://www.google.com/search?q=%22female+butts+in+tight+leather+pants%22 :)
